Story Recapped here.
Today, I’m going to explain an action, adventure,
and drama film called “The Book of Eli.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Pieces of small debris are floating down,
hitting the ground of a dark, gloomy forest.
A gun appears, along with a lifeless body.
In the background, a cat is scavenging and
looking for something to fill its scrawny
body.
As the creature is looking for food, another
is doing the same.
A man named Eli is breathing through a gas
mask, gasping for air.
He steadies the aim of his bow, taking the
life of the unsuspecting creature.
While walking through a desolate land, Eli
comes across a rundown car.
He looks for something of use, but all that
is left is the driver’s skeleton.
His next stop is an abandoned house.
He kicks the door open with his gun ready
in his hand.
However, there’s no one there.
He opens the door to a room and is surprised
to see a dead man.
Aside from the smell, the dead man’s shoes
are the first thing he notices.
He grabs them, taking them out for a spin.
Walking, grooving, happiness clearly showing
in his face, almost seeming like he isn’t
in a post-apocalyptic world.
He cooks the cat for dinner, talks to a mouse,
feeds it, and plays some tunes using his iPod,
all while sharpening his knife and cleaning
his gun like he’s preparing for war.
He proceeds to clean himself with a K.F.C.
wet wipe revealing his scars, a mural of sorts
showcasing everything he has been through.
He reveals a book wrapped in cloth and reads
until he drifts off to sleep.
Finally, the morning comes, and with a breath
of fresh air, a glance towards his powerless
iPod, he returns to his journey.
Eli soon meets a broken and traumatized woman.
She asks him for help, but he knows better.
He has seen this situation countless times
and could smell the enemies’ unbathed selves’
miles away.
He shouts for the hijackers to show themselves
and they appear, knocking down their hiding
spots in the process.
They ask for his belongings, clearly showing
their intent of violence.
However, Eli is unfazed and warns the group’s
leader to keep his hands to himself.
However, the leader doesn’t intend to listen.
Within a split second, like magic, the hand
is cut clean.
Then, with a mix of anger, fear, and shock,
the leader, with one hand, commands the group
to kill Eli.
Eli survives and kills everyone except for
the woman.
Eli grabs everything of use and leaves some
water for the woman.
He says his parting words and returns to his
path going west.
He continues his journey as if nothing happened.
He sits atop a destroyed bridge, observing
a couple getting troubled by a bunch of bikers.
Deep down, he wants to help, but he will have
to go against his will to stay on the path.
What’s happening isn’t his concern.
Later on, he finds himself at a crossroads
and goes right.
Eli arrives at a city where a small community
resides.
As a foreigner, the people are wary of him.
He enters a shop and is quickly greeted by
a gun.
He shows his hands to show that he means no
harm, and the owner of the shop checks if
he is one of them, but Eli assures him that
he is not.
He trades a lighter and a couple of K.F.C.
wet wipes for a full charge on his fathom
900 battery.
Meanwhile, the same biker group from earlier
comes into town with a bunch of books that
they give to a powerful man, their boss.
Unfortunately, the book that the man is looking
for isn’t there.
Eli soon enters a dining hall-looking establishment
thirsting for a drink of water.
He sells a piece of cloth and two gloves for
a full refill on his container.
The bartender calls a woman named Solara,
and she goes to fill the container.
A guy named Martz, who is the leader of the
biker group from earlier, confronts Eli.
Martz shows signs of anger and hostility,
but Eli doesn’t want any trouble.
Feeling trapped, he slams Martz’s face on
the counter while announcing that Martz is
a murderer of innocent people pertaining to
the couple that they killed earlier.
Martz falls to the floor and Eli then tries
to leave the establishment, but everyone starts
to block the entrance.
He has no other choice than to go through
all of them.
He proceeds to take the life of everyone who
tries to attack him.
Solara enters the hall and sees what’s happening,
so she shouts loud enough to stop the chaos.
More of them arrive, and Eli quickly finds
himself playing nice with the boss.
They begin to interrogate him, asking him
questions about his identity, values, and
agenda.
He refuses to reply with anything that will
lead to them knowing who he is and what he
aims to do.
However, Eli and the boss share something
in common; they’re both educated and civilized.
The boss offers him an opportunity to work
for him because he plans to expand his community.
He turns down the offer, stating he has to
go west.
The boss then invites Eli to stay the night,
providing him a warm bed, food, and water.
He agrees, but he feels as though disagreeing
isn’t an option.
After a while, a blind woman comes into the
room, giving him food and water.
He asks her how that came about, to which
she replies she was born that way.
The woman reports to the boss that Eli is
different and he will not follow him like
the others.
The boss thinks otherwise and decides to send
Solara to Eli’s room, even though the woman
begs him not to.
Solara comes in, wearing a revealing nightgown.
She tries to make advances, but Eli respectfully
declines, opening the door for her to leave.
She pleads not to make her go as the boss
named Carnegie will hurt her mother, who happens
to be the blind woman.
She offers to sleep on the floor and tells
Eli to lie to Carnegie by stating that they
slept together.
He agrees, and Solara starts asking about
the pre-apocalyptic world.
She sees the book that Eli is hiding.
He asks her where they get their water, but
she insists on telling him only if he tells
her about the book.
The night ends with them eating and praying
together, resembling a date.
When morning comes, Solara reports to Carnegie
and prays before eating with her mother.
She's unable to finish the prayer, and Carnegie
notices this.
He interrupts the prayer and interrogates
Solara, asking her if she has seen a book
or read anything.
She refuses to answer, making Carnegie use
violence on her mother to make Solara talk.
Finally, with no choice, she breaks and tells
Carnegie about the book with a leather cover
and a crucifix on the front.
Carnegie and his men search for Eli, but he
is gone.
Carnegie’s right-hand man then shoots the
ignorant guard looking after him.
Meanwhile, Eli gets the battery from the shop
and then meets guns pointing at him as soon
as he steps out.
Carnegie asks for the book, showing his intent
to kill.
He wants the book for the power it has—the
power of faith and belief.
Carnegie pitches the idea of a community and
a world where people are united by faith.
Saying the book shouldn’t be kept by one
person but distributed to all.
Eli shows a desire for that as well, but not
with Carnegie.
Carnegie orders his right-hand man to shoot
Eli, but every bullet just seems to graze
and miss him.
Then all hell breaks loose; Eli starts to
shoot with pinpoint accuracy hitting them
one by one while no shot is hitting him as
if he has the power of God protecting him.
Finally, he hit Carnegie’s leg with a shotgun,
signaling the end of the brief battle.
All that is left is him and the right-hand
man lowering his gun, allowing him to walk
away.
Solara runs after Eli, but he doesn’t want
anything to do with her.
However, she grabs his attention with a single
phrase.
Solara says that she will take him to where
they get their water.
So they make a visit to the spring, and as
they exit, Eli says to Solara that he forgot
his sunglasses inside.
And her gullible self goes into the cave,
making it too easy for him to lock her from
the other side.
He then expresses that the road is no place
for someone like her, to which she responds
with an unpleasant curse word.
Carnegie is screeching in pain while someone
is fixing up his leg.
He announces that they will go after Eli,
but his right-hand man shows dismay because
he doesn’t understand why they would go
to such lengths for a book.
Carnegie argues it’s not just a book but
rather a priceless commodity.
The right-hand man contracts a deal stating
that he will give his utmost loyalty in exchange
for Solara, and Carnegie laughingly agrees.
They bring out their vehicles and start their
journey west in search of Eli.
Solara is lost in the middle of the road.
There she meets a familiar scene of a woman
asking for help.
Solara offers her assistance, but the injured
woman tries to say she doesn’t need any
and asks her to leave.
She is stubborn, and that stubbornness leads
to her screaming as two thugs manhandle her.
As she shouts for help and the feeling of
hopelessness grows, an arrow pierces through
the pants of the thug.
Eli arrives at the scene just in time to rescue
her.
Carnegie and his men arrive at the place of
the thugs who harmed Solara.
They decide to stop for the night and plan
to make ground early in the morning.
Meanwhile, Eli squats down to read his book.
Solara asks him if he reads the book every
day and requests for him to read some to her.
He obliges and starts a sermon just like a
priest to his listeners.
He then explains why the book is just not
any book; it is the only one of its kind left.
The rest of the copies are now ashes, and
its words and lessons are only memories to
some.
He then tells more of how everything was before,
during, and after the war—telling a story
of how the sky opened up, burning everything
and everyone, leaving a lucky few that survived.
And him being one of them.
On how he got the book, he relays events that
start with a voice coming from inside of him.
He follows it, leading him to the book under
a pile of rubble.
Then, the voice instructs him to embark west
and go on a seemingly endless walk.
Driving through the long road, Carnegie signals
his men to stop.
They venture into an abandoned nuclear power
plant that the two stayed in the night before.
Solara discovers that Eli has been walking
for over thirty years, and not once has he
thought that he is lost because he carries
his faith with every step.
And his direction isn’t governed by just
sight.
The two encounter an abandoned house.
They approach cautiously with Eli leading
the way.
With a slight turn of a doorknob, they find
themselves in a pitfall.
The door opens, introducing an old woman,
and her husband looks down and threatens the
two.
However, the old woman shows a shard of kindness
in her heart and invites them for a cup of
tea.
A couple of sips in, a friendly bond starts
to form, and the old man invites the two outside.
Before their eyes are graves lined up.
Eli and Solara quickly assume that these were
from people the old couple killed and ate,
as Eli observes that the old woman’s hands
were shaking, meaning she is a cannibal.
They make their way out, but suddenly, they
see Carnegie and his men.
They lock themselves in, and with no hesitation,
the old man lifts the cushions on his couch,
revealing a motherlode of weapons foreseeing
the chaos that is about to ensue.
With a megaphone, Carnegie voices out his
requests which are Solara and the book.
To their surprise, a book wrapped in cloth
flies out of a window.
They begin to open it, and to a bigger surprise,
the book turns out to be a makeshift bomb.
The timer goes off and causes a car to flip
from the explosion accompanied by the sound
of flesh hitting the ground and bullets firing.
The rain of ammunition punctures the house
through, with the holes showing the scenery
from the other side.
They survive the onslaught, but the battlefield
is soon flipped upside down with the sight
of a bazooka.
Carnegie’s right-hand man fires it, decimating
the old man’s wife, and he follows soon
thereafter in a spur of rage.
The disparity between the forces grows significantly
when a mounted machine gun introduces itself
to the fold.
Their chances are thin; Eli and Solara realize
that there is no way out of this and soon
accept their fate.
Carnegie asks him where the book is, but he
chooses not to reply, so they start searching
for the book in his bag.
It is nowhere to be seen.
As a test of his fortitude, his eyes show
no fear in the sight of Carnegie’s gun.
However, he does not realize that all his
strength falters because of this one weakness,
Solara.
This leaves him no choice but to reveal where
the book is located.
With the book in the wrong hands, Eli’s
faith has also left him.
And with a pull of a trigger, he would stand
no more, and he would walk no more.
With his dying breath and his body weak, his
strong faith gives up on him.
Carnegie asks for his prayers and goes on
his way with a defeated Solara in his possession
once again.
But a sudden spark of fight lights up inside
of Solara; in her hands is a rope she uses
to strangle the driver causing a commotion
in the vehicle.
With her gashed face, she gathers her thoughts
and acts quickly.
A convenient grenade presents itself in the
seat of the car.
She throws it across, and the grenade rolls
underneath the truck and explodes.
Carnegie’s eyes exude the frustration he
feels.
With her plan unexpectedly working, Solara
gets into the car, and a moment of shock occurs
as Carnegie’s right-hand man gets a hold
of her arm.
But the hold isn’t a forceful one; instead,
it is a weak grasp, indicating that he’s
letting go and saying goodbye.
Solara notices a blade that belonged to Eli
is piercing his chest.
Without any fuel left, Carnegie decides not
to go after Solara, marking the end of his
chase.
Solara drives to the house in search of Eli,
but he is nowhere to be found.
Eli isn’t outside the house because his
journey isn’t over; instead, he walks down
the long road going west, and Solara finds
him.
Together in the car, they drive towards the
still unknown destination.
She apologizes for the trouble she caused
and for making the man give up the book.
But, Eli soon realizes that what made him
give up the book was not the girl in danger
but the desire to do for others more than
he does for himself.
Carnegie has the book in his hands, but he
soon finds out that it is locked.
Eli smells the ocean displaying his exceptional
olfactory senses.
They’re now driving across the sea on a
bridge that’s still standing.
She hit the breaks, and they start to go on
foot to get to the other side.
The two ride a boat by the shore, taking turns
rowing and both feeling the coldness of the
ocean breeze.
A man shouts from afar, cautiously asking
what their business with the place is.
Eli introduces himself, claiming he has a
King James Bible in his possession, knowing
he does not.
Back in the city, the engineer from the shop
shakingly attempts to open the locked Bible.
Meanwhile, Eli and Solara successfully enter
the heavily-guarded place.
What meets them is a man and a plethora of
people, books, and machinery making up an
organization that aims to inform the rest
of humanity about the world they’ve lost.
They have all sorts of documents ranging from
Mozart to Shakespeare, but they don’t have
a bible, which Eli claims he has.
Back in the city, a few clicks and a few turns
after, the engineer finally picks the lock.
And there, Carnegie has the secret to power
in his hands.
The excitement on his face quickly turns into
sorrow and confusion.
At the same time, Eli asks for some paper
and a lot of it.
Carnegie realizes that the book is not blank,
but it just doesn’t contain ink as it’s
written in braille.
And with thirty years of reading or feeling
the book, Eli knows it by memory and by heart.
As Eli speaks the book of Genesis verse by
verse, the irony rises as to how the verse
“Let there be Light” sheds light on the
truth that Eli could not see the light as
he is revealed to be blind.
As a last attempt by Carnegie to receive the
word of God, he calls upon the blind mother
of Solara.
A faint smile is seen on her face as she touches
the braille writing; unfortunately, she can’t
remember how to interpret it.
The infected leg of Carnegie is eating him
up, diminishing him to his weakest point and
with no one by his side.
Solara’s mother teases him, making him realize
that he reaps what he sows, and this is Carnegie’s
harvest.
He sits leaning on a rail, observing as everything
he built turns into ash.
There lies Eli, like a patient to a therapist,
speaking the word of God.
Speaking his message of gratitude as his journey
to the west ends with God as his destination.
With this, a new journey arises, Solara with
Eli’s blade and iPod, finds her way back
home.